So, now, this is going to be a very quick refresher video on how Mocha and Chai work.
First of all, it's a very simple library.
You just have three or four functions.
We probably might not even use all of them in our testing for the smart contracts.
Then, I'll explain you how and why very soon.
But it's a very simple library to understand.
Basically, it's a testing framework for JavaScript,
that's what Mocha is, and it can be used to test any kind of JavaScript code.
You can use for front end applications,
back end applications, Node applications,
and also even smart contracts,
which is your files written in Solidity.
On the other hand, Chai is more of an assertion library.
So, you have assert.ok, assert.equal,
so just comparing two values together,
that's what Chai is, very simple,
again, just a couple of commands to understand.
Now, both are available as npm packages,
of course, a very popular between a lot of developers to test their code.
Now, Truffle comes preinstalled with Mocha and Chai.
So, you don't have to do any npm installation separately, but because, like I said,
if you want to do it, you can do it separately,
but Truffle comes preinstalled with all the stuff.
Moving on, let's talk a little bit more detail about Mocha and Chai.
A Mocha has test cases,
so you can create bunch of test cases, which are called it.
So, use an it block to create a test.
Again, lots of examples coming soon.
Then, Chai is just assert,
more of assert statement.
Now, Mocha functions, basically,
we're just looking at four functions.
Those are the only ones that we pretty much would ever end up using: it function,
describe function, beforeEach, and afterEach.
It is used to run a test and make an assertion.
Describe is used to group bunch of its together,
and, again, we will look at examples soon.
BeforeEach is used to run just some basic code
that you really want to run before a lot of
functions as opposed to doing them every time all together.
You can just have a beforeEach function.
So, before every it block is run,
your contract or whatever that you're testing will just run the beforeEach.
Same thing with an afterEach.
An example would be, let's say,
you read from a function in a smart contract.
For that, you want to deploy the contract every time.
So, as opposed to doing it in every single it function,
you can put all of that code in the beforeEach function.
So, beforeEach, all of the it blocks are run.
You will deploy the contracts,
you have a fresh copy to start with every time the block comes through.
Same thing, afterEach, executed for some general cleanup code.
It happens pretty much after every it test.
Little bit more detailed, it function, like I said,
the purpose of it is to run one individual assertion on something we are trying to test.
Assertion means that we are taking two values and then comparing them together.
Describe function, the purpose of describe is to run
similar it functions together just for organization in nature, and you want to describe.
A lot of it functions do something very similar.
So, you can just all put them together and describe block.
Again, examples coming very soon.
BeforeEach, like we talked, but it's more of a utility function used to
extract some common logic that is common to a lot of tests that you'll be running.
So, you can put all of them in a beforeEach function together.
So, that means now, beforeEach will be executed before a collection of it functions.
AfterEach, the same thing,
exactly same thing, utility function.
All the common logic could be put together in an afterEach function, and similar thing.
So, that means afterEach will be now executed after collection of it functions.
Chai is in a social library.
So, all you have, pretty much what you end up using is assert.
So, you can do a assert.equal, you're comparing two values.
So, in the first one, you're comparing owner to udacity.
Next one, you can also do typeOf compare if foo is a typeOf string,
and they can also check a length of something,
you can also check the property of something.
Pretty much we end up using mostly equal or ok with our smart contracts.
So, use asserting two values,
and you get a true or a false.
Let's look at a very simple example here.
So, if you see, we have a beforeEach function.
So, what we're doing in the beforeEach function, we're just deploying.
So, if you see, we have name of a contract called library,
we're deploying it, and then,
we have a fresh copy of this every time available before all the it blocks happen.
If you also see, we have a describe.
So, typically, what these functions do,
they take two parameters.
The first is just a description since, say,
if you see the describe has a description, say, all tests.
Then, the second is a function.
Now, within that, then,
we have all the it blocks.
Exactly the same thing with it, two parameters.
The first one is some description of that it test followed by the second is a function.
Now, within that function, we can do all async await calls.
We'll, again, look at those examples very soon,
but that's the basics.
So, you have a beforeEach,
so this beforeEach would be called before all it blocks.
Describe is just to organizational in nature to group bunch of it blocks together.
Those are similar, and if you see,
we have two it blocks,
all grouped together inside the describe blocks.
So, both describe and it take two function arguments.
The first is a description,
the second is a function.
Same thing can happen it block.
The first is description,
so if you look at the first one, it says,
create a library owner, and then,
the second one is a function that it takes in.
Then, you have the function definition after it.
So, that's pretty much a Mocha and Chai is.
Now, we're going to see lots and lots of examples of this as we
start writing more tests on our smart contracts.